Social interactions can be complicated.
You need to know yourself, understand others,
and know how to bridge those gaps.
In short, you need social skills.
But what exactly are social skills,
and how can you develop them?
First, social skills refer
to how well you handle
and influence other people's emotions.
It's a skill that covers a lot of ground,
and it's defined by an ability
to tune into another's emotions,
move them into the desired direction,
and manage relationships.
Social skills cover a wide range of aptitudes
that can be a little confusing at first.
So, to better understand this emotional competency,
we can break it down into seven hallmarks.
The first hallmark of social skills involves communication.
Communication skills enable you
to share your feelings
and understand the feelings of others.
Next, there's collaboration and cooperation,
which refers to how well you work with others
so that conversations are productive and inclusive.
Third, there's persuasion and influence,
which is the ability to win people over
and convince them that they want to do what you want.
Fourth, there's inspirational leadership,
which is the ability to motivate and inspire others.
Fifth, there's the ability to manage conflicts
by creating solutions that everyone can agree on.
Next, there's the ability
to develop and maintain relationships
by having meaningful conversations.
And finally, there's change management,
which is the ability to help others feel excited about,
rather than fearful of, change.
For leaders, social skills are essential.
And through practice,
you can enhance your social skills
by improving your expertise
in each of those seven hallmarks.
Here's how.
First, to enhance your communication skills,
share clear messages by being straightforward and sincere.
Listen actively by giving others your full attention,
and ask open questions
so that you can learn more about others.
Next, to improve collaboration and cooperation,
make sure everyone starts on the same page
by clarifying roles and defining objectives.
Then, to ensure ongoing cooperation,
celebrate each person's individuality,
encourage open-minded communication,
and express your appreciation for others.
To persuade and influence others,
start by formulating a clear argument
and developing a compelling reason
that appeals to your conversation partner's emotions.
Then, practice assertive communication
when delivering that message.
Fourth, to be an inspirational leader,
communicate a motivating company purpose
and unlock your team's potential
by appealing to each person's motivators.
Then, keep spirits up
by complimenting individual employees on their progress
and giving them some autonomy.
Inspirational leaders give
their employees individualized attention.
They recognize the person behind the job,
listen to their staff,
and emotionally empower their teams.
And that same attention can also come in handy
when managing conflicts.
To manage conflicts effectively,
start by, first, identifying
and dealing with each person's emotions.
Then, once everyone is in a stable state,
identify the conflict to make sure
there's no miscomputation, propose solutions,
and try to reach a conclusion
that meets everyone's underlying concerns.
Next, to develop and maintain relationships,
demonstrate a sincere interest in others
through active listening.
Also, communicate with empathy
to form connections and inject humor
into conversations, when appropriate.
Finally, to manage change,
start by explaining the need for that change.
Why is it necessary,
and what will people gain?
Next, listen to your employees' concerns
and fix what you can fix based on that feedback.
Then, to create a more seamless transition,
spend time training and preparing your staff
before making that change official.
There's a lot that goes into
perfecting your social skills,
and it doesn't happen overnight,
so keep practicing.
Remember the tips we covered,
and you'll start having better interactions,
both in and outside the workplace.